# Zipline

A story by Rich Bowen

http://rcbowen.com/writes/

@rbowen

## Launch

It's all about the launch, because, after that, it's all gravity and
angle of descent.

g times sin θ

g is 1.622 m/s². θ varies from one part of the course to another, but
there's nothing you can do about that.

Minus friction, of course, but The Corporation always claimed zero
friction. And while we all know that's not possible, that's the story
they're sticking to. And there's no wind resistance to speak of outside
of the airlock, so that only really matters for a few minutes of the
ride. Still, I'm wearing a skin-tight suit, and a tear-drop shaped
helmet, complete with the heads-up display with all of the stats.

But, really, the only thing you can control is the launch.

The numbers tick down in my HUD, and I tense, ready for the launch.

... 2 ... 

All my opponents are listed at 0.00. Zero point zero zero seconds ahead,
or behind me. Time elapsed, zero.

I can't see any of them from here - we all launch from widely separated
spots so there's no chance of interference. Our paths will converge
later on.

... 1 ...

I strain against the rail lock ready for ...

Launch

With a crack, the rail lock releases, and I am plunging towards the
edge, just twenty meters away.

Nine months of training compressed into about 2 and a half seconds. I've
run this race thousands of times. Every stride has been rehearsed, every
footfall and pushoff optimized so that I'll be going as fast as possible
at the edge, and so that the last step is as close to the edge as
possible.

And I push off the edge.

Freefall for less than a second,

and then, the cables take up the slack, and I'm riding the rail, and
my work is almost done.

I point the teardrop of the helmet directly down-path, and hold my arms
hard against my sides, and point my toes. I hardly dare to breathe, in
case it causes more drag.

Ahead, the airlocks approach. A series of four irising openings that
open in front of me, and close behind me. Or, so I assume - I'm not
about to look back and lose precious microseconds.

The first one doesn't seem to change much, because it's full of air from
the colony, but as I pass into the second, still gaining speed, it's
noticeably quieter - less air rushing past my helmet, less buffetting of
my shoulders. And by the third, it's almost silent.

The fourth passes, and I'm completely outside, flying far above the
surface, steadily picking up speed.

I close my eyes tightly, and mumble "HUD off".

I don't want to see the numbers, since there's nothing I can do about
them.

"Turn off head's up display?", the not-quite-human voice in my earphones
asks.

"Yes."

I open my eyes, and see darkness below, the brilliant stars above, and
the blinking green lights of my opponents to the left and right of me.

Nothing now but to wait.

I adjust the tension straps of my suit, so that I'll keep this
aerodynamic pose without cramping every muscle in my body. Not that it
matters out here. There's practically no atmosphere to speak of, in
spite of 174 years of effort.

## Atmosphere

Growing up, I loved - no, worshiped - Ray Bradbury. I read, re-read, and
memorized the Martian Chronicles. It was practically gospel to me.

Except Benjamin Driscoll and his trek across the wilderness planting
trees.

Benjamin Driscoll notwithstanding, planting trees in alien soil is a
difficult business. The picture of a wave of pure cold oxygen sweeping
across the Martian landscape was a myth. A compelling myth, to be sure,
but a myth.

Generations of terraformers had planted trees on the dusty lunar surface.
Seeds, saplings, and full adult trees. Only a few stands of scraggly
baobabs stood witness to all this effort. They were apparently the only
thing hardy enough to endure the long lunar nights, or extract any
nourishment from the hostile soil, in spite of billions of dollars worth
of effort, and constant nurturing.

And so the waves of crisp cold oxygen were not forthcoming, and it was
still mostly a vacuum out here, between the domes.

## Numbers

When I can't stand it any longer, I relent.

"HUD on."

The numbers spring up again. For each of the 12 of us, velocity and lead
time. We're still very early, so velocity is still fairly low, and
varies only a tiny amount from one to the next.

One rider - number 8 - is way behind the rest of us, with a trailing
time of almost 3 seconds. Must have stumbled on the launch. The rest of
us are in a tight pack. #3 and #7 are ahead of me. .024 and .017,
respectively. The rest are behind by similar margins.

Better than I had hoped for at this point. Plenty of time to make that
up in the domes.

## Zipline

It was called the Richard Branson Memorial Slideway, named after the
greatest civilian astronaut of all time. But everyone called it the
Zipline.

My great grandfather claimed to have met Sir Richard. It was a story he
told at every family gathering, without fail.

"You know, once I met Sir Richard," he'd begin.

"You did not, you old coot," G G Ma would cut him off. "You weren't even
born yet!"

Great grandfather would give me a big exaggerated wink. I had no idea
what that meant.

The first time he told the story, I looked up what 'Coot' meant. A coot,
the article said, was "a medium-sized water bird that is a member of the
Rallidae (rail) family." What more proof did I need? Great grandfather
was clearly a rail rider, and, so, ipso facto, must have actually met
Sir Richard. Q E friken D, as my big brother would have said.

When I explained my theory to him, he just rolled his eyes at me.

Years later, I realized that it was just a story that Great grandfather
told to irritate G G Ma.

Years later still, I realized that it was just part of the game that
they played, because they were so in love, and had these games they
played. All. The. Time.

It's weird how kids so seldom understand the adults in their lives, even
the ones that they're the closest to.

(For what it's worth, he did, in fact, meet Sir Richard, sort of. But
that's a story for another time.)

## New London

If there's anything you can count on, when people move to a new place
to get away from the old one, it's that they'll name the new after the
old, and recreate all the things they hated about the old, right there
in the new.

## Momentum

## Sabotage

## Finish Line

## Conspiracy

"We're out!" screamed the tall man, practically foaming. His tie, so
immaculate in the TV photo ops, was pulled down and to one side, and his
eyes were red with rage.

"Out. No more double-platinum sponsorship. No more shuttles to the moon
for your pretty boys. No more TV campaign. No more. Done."

Sitting at the huge mahogany desk, Mr. G appeared unperturbed. He ran
his fingers lovingly over the smooth surface of the desk, remembering
that it had cost more to bring it to the moon than this worm had paid
for the TV spots in the latest race.

A single desk lamp shone on the desk surface, reflecting dully up into
his large face, the bushy eyebrows leaving his eyes hidden. He pushed a
few folder around, and let the sponsor fume for just a moment longer.

Still, he was an important sponsor. Better make a show of caring.

"Please, calm yourself, Larry. Nobody could have predicted. And look at
the coverage." He gestured to the screen, where the moment was being
played back for the millionth time. "The movie rights alone ..."

"We paid to win, not for some sappy greeting card photo finish. She
LOST. She's no champion. She lost. We're out!"

He turned, flung the door open so hard that the knob embedded in the
wall, and stormed out, leaving a trail of open-mouthed assistants,
secretaries, and the late-night cleanup crew who had just arrived,
staring after him.

Mr. G sat quietly for a moment. He briefly made eye contact with one of
the hovering assistants, who closed the door. With the snick of the hasp,
the room was restored to quiet, nothing but the tick of the ancient
clock - it, too, worth more than the puny sponsor so recently departed -
breaking the silence.

He took a deep breath, exhaled softly.

Then

"As planned. Are you in for next year, then?"

A shadow emerged from the shadows.

"As planned? How could you possibly know?" The look on his face was
admiring, but also a little frightened.

"Are you in, or not? The opportunity will not arise again."

Mr. G picked up a folder from his desk, and held it over the waste paper
basket, raising his eyebrows ever so slightly as he glanced up at the
thin man, standing in the gloom.

"Oh, yes, of course, we're in. As agreed. Of course. No, we wouldn't
think of backing out."

"Excellent."

The folder was placed back on the desk, and Mr. G went back to perusing
some papers, as though he was alone again.

Several minutes later, the thin man cleared his throat. "Uh ... sir
...?"

Mr. G looked up.

"You're still here." A statement, not a question, but with an implied
threat.

"No. No sir."

He slipped into the hallway, leaving the gears of commerce to tick
softly in the darkness.

